#summary Project Status as of 15 September 2010

= Filtering Code version 1.0 released =

I have now finished a pretty much complete implementation of the filtering class.  This has been debugged and tested, and the release of version 1.0 is available as a gzip tar file at [http://voview.googlecode.com/files/filter_pkg_1.0.tar.gz filter_pkg_1.0.tar.gz].  This release contains a test suite, based on JUnit and Selenium, for running unit tests on the software.  However, there is currently no ant build target for running the test suite, and no instructions for setting up a Selenium server, so unless you are familiar with Selenium and JUnit you will not be able to run these tests.

I have reworked the packaging of the javascript significantly from version 0.5, and this is reflected in the example webpages included in the distribution under src/html.  Also, the XSLT files needed for processing are included within the javascript package, so the XSLT files no longer need to be downloaded from a server.

As with the previous release, you can browse the [http://voview.googlecode.com/svn/voview-propose/tags/release_1.0_20100915/README README] file, and the package has been installed on the HEASARC website.  There are now two example pages, [http://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/vo/develop/view/filter_test.html filter_test] and [http://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/vo/develop/view/filter_test2.html filter_test2].  The first page demonstrates basic functionality, whereas the second page also demonstrates the column value filtering capabilities.

My next goal is to begin implementing the renderer class, based on the old VOView table renderer currently being used in Datascope.
 
                           -- Dean